# Trees & Graphs

Tree & graph problems can be difficult because of the non-linear structure.

It is important to discuss problems to clarify the question.

* Binary Tree vs. Binary Search Tree - A BST is ordered with every left node smaller than the right node
* Balanced vs. Unbalanced - balanced doesn't mean the tree is equal, only that the trees vary by a certain amount. Unbalanced requires explanation of the algorithm in best and average time.
* Full & complete - a tree is full and complete when all the leaves are at the bottom and every non-leaf node has two children.

## Binary tree traversal

You can traverse a tree. BFS with a queue or DFS with a stack.

* in-order - for all nodes, recursively visit left, current, right
* post-order - for all nodes, recursively visit the current, left then right nodes
* pre-order - for all nodes, recursively visit the right, left, current.

## Trie (retrieval) structure

A variant of the n-ary tree with characters stored at each node so you can build words from the paths.

## Graph traversal

This can be harder than btree traversal. There are two main methods:

### Depth first Search

Great to visit every node in the graph, for search operations.

For a node n, we visit the node and it's adjacent nodes, before searching the next level of adjacent nodes.

To prevent an infinite loop we must also check if the current node has been visited.

### Breadth first search

For larger trees, breadth first search can help search the root's closest ancestors first.

We visit all the adjacent nodes before visiting their adjacent nodes. A queue is good for this. 
